What is containers?
Container is tool , technology which allows to run processes on isolated environment using kernel of host OS.

lets say we have tomcat, nginx servers and we can  isolate these services using VMs, tomcat -> VM, nginx -> VM, 

VM needs OS, licences, big in size not convient for shipment and deployment, support, maintance, expensive, 

to provide high availablity need multiple VMs, so needs additional financial resources

let's imagine that we have munltiple processes running in the same OS but isolated, like VMs which has its own IP/Port numbers, directories but without OSs, this is container.
a container is process running isolated in directory with its own namespce, cgroup, with neccesary bin/lib files in this directory
we can treat a container as standard unit of software that packges up code, its depencies but without OS. one of the benefits of contaianers that it has not OS, so its light weght they just processes, so it is easy for shipment and deployment.

Docker 
- actually manages our containers
- we can call it container run time environment
- we can run containers very easy using docker engine
- actually is name of company who developed docker engine that allows very easy manage containers, Docker engine, it is docker run time environment, docker open source project

Docker is a popular open source containerization tool used to provide a portable and consistent runtime environment for software applications, while consuming less resources than a traditional server or virtual machine. 
Docker uses containers, isolated user-space environments that run at the operating system level and share system resources such as the kernel and the filesystem.

PAAS - platform as service, is like beanstalk, we just upload our artifact and run up the service/application.

Docker engine - it is a service, deamon running on OS, we can it using rest API or docker cli.

Docker is popular becouse of its images. in its repositoty, available 1000 of images that we can use in our projects or use by custimizing them. we can simply pull the image and run the containers. 

we can connect volumes to save or preserve the data out of the containers. it allows to create many containers without lose of data.

windows or linux, as the process running on container uses host OS kernel, we only can run windows containers on windows OS as the process needs windows kernel, linux containers on linux OSs as it also need linux kernel to be run.

what is OS kernel?
- confuses with bios, OS
- interacts software applicatinon with hardware/hardware components like cpu, memory, usb and others
- between user applicaiton and hardware

Вопросы собеседование, Какие системы подсистемы ядра люникс использует докер при своей работе?
1) namespace: механизм ядро люникса к-й обеспечивает изоляцию процессов друг от друга (изолирует процессы друг от друга)
2) Cgroup - механизм ядро люникса к-й ограничивает, изолирует вычислительные ресурсы для групп процессов (ограничивает, изулировает вычислительные ресурсы для групп процессов)
Ресурсы процессорные, сетевые, память, ресурсы ввода и вывода

What's Docker images?
actually this is stopped container, it is an archive
consists of multiple layers, each layer will be some data, 
when you building your own image, lets say we install package, some appl, git, it will create a layer, create directory is an other layer, so all the layers will be on read only mode
containers run from the image, directly connected to it, cannot remove image once its container running
Images are called as repositories in registries
tomcat images are called as tomcat repositories in registry, 
docker hub is regitry, 
images becomes containers when we run them on docekr engine
docker pull, docker run

Docker registries
- cloud based - dockerhub, google container registry, amazon ECR
- local registries - nexus3+ , jfrog artifactory

Docker commnds:
docker pull, run/stop, images, ps/ps -a, execute, log/inspect, rm/rmi





